docs: added docs for custom formats for `EntityDataParser` (#22507)
backstage/backstage: docs/features/software-catalog/external-integrations.md

  }
}
```

### Supporting different metadata file formats

> Sometimes you might already have files in GitHub or some provider that Backstage already supports but the metadata format that you use is not the same as `catalog-info.yaml` files. In this case you can implement a custom parser that can read the files and convert them to the `Entity` format that Backstage expects, and it will integrate seamlessly into Catalog so that you can use things like the `GithubEntityProvider` to read these files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes you might already have files in GitHub or some provider that Backstage already supports but the metadata format that you use is not the same as `catalog-info.yaml` files. In this case you can implement a custom parser that can read the files and convert them on-the-fly to the `Entity` format that Backstage expects, and it will integrate seamlessly into Catalog so that you can use things like the `GithubEntityProvider` to read these files.
```

matter of taste but, thinking it may be worth to signal that it's not changing the original files

What you will need to do is to provide a custom `CatalogProcessorParser` and provide that to `builder.setEntityDataParser`.

Let's say my format looks something like this:

```yaml
id: my-service
type: service
author: user@backstage.com
```

We need to build a custom parser that can read this format and convert it to the `Entity` format that Backstage expects.

```ts title="packages/backend/src/lib/customEntityDataParser.ts"
import {
  CatalogProcessorParser,
  CatalogProcessorResult,
  LocationSpec,
  processingResult,
} from '@backstage/plugin-catalog-node';
import yaml from 'yaml';
import {
  Entity,
  stringifyLocationRef,
  ANNOTATION_ORIGIN_LOCATION,
  ANNOTATION_LOCATION,
} from '@backstage/catalog-model';
import _ from 'lodash';
import parseGitUrl from 'git-url-parse';

> // This implementation will be your own to map whatever you format is into valid Entity formats.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// This implementation will map whatever your own format is into valid Entity objects.
```

const makeEntityFromCustomFormatJson = (
  component: { id: string; type: string; author: string },
  location: LocationSpec,
): Entity => {
  return {
    apiVersion: 'backstage.io/v1alpha1',
    kind: 'Component',
    metadata: {
      name: component.id,
      namespace: 'default',
      annotations: {
        [ANNOTATION_LOCATION]: `${location.type}:${location.target}`,
        [ANNOTATION_ORIGIN_LOCATION]: `${location.type}:${location.target}`,
      },
    }
    spec: {
      type: component.type,
      owner: component.author,
      lifecycle: 'experimental'
    }
  }
};

export const customEntityDataParser: CatalogProcessorParser = async function* ({
  data,
  location,
}) {
  let documents: yaml.Document.Parsed[];
  try {
    // let's treat the incoming file always as yaml, you can of course change this if your format is not yaml.
    documents = yaml.parseAllDocuments(data.toString('utf8')).filter(d => d);
  } catch (e) {

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    // If there's errors parsing the document as yaml, we should throw an error.
    if (document.errors?.length) {
      const loc = stringifyLocationRef(location);
      const message = `YAML error at ${loc}, ${document.errors[0]}`;
      yield processingResult.generalError(location, message);
    } else {
      // Convert the document to JSON
      const json = document.toJSON();
      if (_.isPlainObject(json)) {
        // Is this a catalog-info.yaml file?
        if (json.apiVersion) {
          yield processingResult.entity(location, json as Entity);

        // let's treat this like it's our custom format instead.
        } else {
          yield processingResult.entity(
            location,
            makeEntityFromCustomFormatJson(json, location),
          );
        }
      } else if (json === null) {
        // Ignore null values, these happen if there is an empty document in the
        // YAML file, for example if --- is added to the end of the file.
      } else {
        // We don't support this format.
        const message = `Expected object at root, got ${typeof json}`;
        yield processingResult.generalError(location, message);
      }
    }
  }
}

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

> This is a lot of code right now, as this is a pretty niche use-case, so we don't currently provide many helpers for you to be able to provide custom implementations easier and compose together different parsers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a lot of code right now, as this is a pretty niche use-case, so we don't currently provide many helpers for you to be able to provide custom implementations easier or to compose together different parsers.
```
